# Quadruped-Forest-Ranger
Quadruped Forest Ranger based on Inverse Kinematics &amp; Dynamic Gait-Changing

The task of habitat management in mountainous environments has traditionally been conducted by human forest rangers with limited and rudimentary mountain equipment, which often leads to gaps in data collection. Recent advancements in quadruped robotics have made the deployment of quadruped rangers in forest environments increasingly viable. The goal of this project is to explore the possibility of a quadruped robot's maneuvering through mountainous forest environments as a potent forest ranging tool. A quadruped forest ranger consists of servos, detection sensors, other electronic components, and 3D-printed materials that are developed and programmed. The quadruped ranger has an octagonal main body and four identical legs in a configuration that allows the quadruped ranger to easily maneuver around forest environments. A variety of gaits are designed to allow the ranger to overcome complex terrains and obstacles. All gaits are inspired by the crawling and trotting movements of four-leg- animals. The robotic ranger dynamically adjusts its current maneuvering gait accordingly to the change of environment. The servo controlling algorithm is based on a recursive Forward and Backward Inverse Kinematics (FABRIK). Through experiments and testing conducted in laboratory environments designed to mimic authentic mountainous forest environments, the efficiency of each gait in specific corresponding environments is determined. The experiments and testing indicate that this quadruped ranger has the basic ability to maneuver through the assumed mountainous forest environments. In the future, with further AI and communication advancements, quadruped rangers have the potential to replace traditional forest ranging tools, improving year-long data collection in forest environments.
